Model contact protocol is an open
standard that lets Claude code connect
to external tools and data sources.
>> [music]
>> When you ask a question, Claude will
automatically understand when it should
use those tools to better understand
your query.
Context is one of the most important
parts when working with Claude code. A
lot of your context lives elsewhere like
your databases, your productivity apps,
or [music] in public repositories.
This is where MCP comes [music] in.
First, it's important to understand the
concept of tools when talking about
Agentic AI. Tools give agents like
Claude code the ability to perform
actions in order for them to better
complete their tasks.
This is different from other AI where
you just get an output back directly in
text usually. For example, if your team
is using Linear as our project
management software, you can add a
Linear MCP server to bring in the
details of your specific issues.
If you want to get up-to-date
documentation of a dependency that
you're working with, then the Context 7
MCP server will provide Claude code with
that.
There are also hundreds of different
connectors at claude.com/connectors.
You can add MCP servers with the Claude
MCP add command.
There are two main types. HTTP servers
are for remote services. These are
hosted by the service provider and
connect over the network.
STDIO servers are for local processes
that run on your machine.
You can manage your servers with the
/mcp inside a Claude code session to see
what's connected, the status, and
disable servers that you don't want to
use.
MCP servers can be scoped in three
different ways.
One, local means it's only available in
the current project for you.
Two, the user, which means it's
available across all your projects. And
three, project scope uses a .mcp.json
file that you check into your version
control, so anyone working on the code
base gets the exact same servers
automatically.
Now, one thing to be aware of is that
MCP servers add tool definitions to your
context window,
even when you're not using them. So, if
you have a lot of servers configured,
this eats into your available context.
Run the  MCP command to see
what's connected and disable anything
that you're not actively using or don't
think that you're going to use.
If a tool has a CLI equivalent like GH
for GitHub or AWS for
AWS, the CLI is more context efficient
because it doesn't add persistent tool
definitions.
You also might benefit from using a
skill in this scenario.
A skill has a name and a description
that is loaded into context. Similar to
MCP, when Cloud thinks it needs to use
that skill, it then decides to load it
into the context window, which is where
you could put the command line interface
tools.
If your MCP tools exceed 10% of your
context window, Cloud code will
automatically switch to tool search
mode, which will discover the right
tools on demand, but this might not work
as well since it's just not in the
context.
>> [music]
>> Now, a quick recap. MCP connects Cloud
code to your external tools and data
sources.
>> [music]
>> Add servers with Cloud MCP add, scope
them to your project with .mcp.json
so that your team gets them
automatically, and keep an eye on the
context usage by disabling servers
[music] that you're not actively using.